The positron emission tomography machine is an apparatus consisting of two rings. Each ring has a central opening through which a table slides in and out. This apparatus produces 3D images of your body. The rings do not move, only the table moves. You do not come into contact with the rings. The substance used is a radioactive tracer. It produces a light that is invisible to the human eye, but can be detected by PET scan machines. The most frequently used tracer is a sugar called fluorodeoxyglucose, a substance that is non-allergenic and very rarely causes any side effects. Once the substance has been injected, it is stored in your cells, more specifically in abnormal cells. Typically you will wear a hospital gown. You will be asked to remove all metal objects, jewelry, etc. as they affect image quality. During the examination, you must lie perfectly still on the PET scan table. The technologist will leave the examination room, but will still be able to see you through the control room window. There is also a surveillance camera at one end of the machine. The machine is also equipped with a microphone, which means that it is possible to communicate with you throughout the procedure. A PET scan involves the following general steps. Installing an intravenous catheter. Checking blood sugar and if necessary, injecting insulin. Injecting radioactive tracer. A waiting period. The imaging. Examination of images by a nuclear medicine specialist. Obtaining additional images if necessary. A nuclear medicine technologist will come to the waiting room to get you and take you to the injection room. When you get to the injection room, the technologist will verify your identity and your date of birth for a second time, verify the type of examination your doctor requested, make sure that you have done any preparation required before the test. You will have been informed of any special preparation requirements when you made your appointment. The technologist will weigh you, fill in a questionnaire with you, explain the steps involved in the scan. Check your blood sugar level. If the level is too high for the scan, it may be adjusted using insulin. Depending on circumstances, you may be asked to drink a contrast medium to enhance the visibility of your intestines. Lastly, the technologist will tell you the estimated waiting time between the injection and the imaging. Pregnancy testing is mandatory for women under age 18. A pregnancy test will also be carried out for women of childbearing age who think they may be pregnant. This includes chewing gum, lozenges, and cough syrup. If there are any doubts in this respect, the examination will have to be postponed. You must refrain from intensive exercise such as gym workouts, playing hockey and shoveling for 24 hours prior to your examination. Intensive exercise will result in unwanted muscle uptake, appearing in the image and could adversely affect the interpretation of your scan. This means that it's best to avoid this type of exercise before the scan. If you have engaged in intensive exercise, please inform the technologist. The technologist will insert a catheter in a vein in your arm and will then inject a small quantity of the radioactive tracer through the catheter. There is a 60 minute weight period before imaging begins. It is important to remember all the instructions you are given as well as the time of the imaging. You must drink lots of water during the waiting period. Use the designated washrooms as the radioactive substance is eliminated in your urine. Please refrain from using the regular hospital washrooms. At the end of the waiting period, a technologist will come and get you in the waiting room. You will have to lie on your back with your arms over your head or alongside your body. The examination table will slide inside the first ring for the x-ray to be taken. It will then pass through a second ring for the pet images. The rings can be widened for patient suffering from claustrophobia. The examination will last about 20 minutes. Once the 20 minutes are up, you will be able to move around and sit up while the nuclear medicine physician examines the images. On average, this takes 20 minutes. Additional images may be required. If so, we will give you further instructions. Once the test is deemed satisfactory, the technologist will remove the intravenous catheter and ask you to apply pressure to the injection site for about 3 minutes. The pressure is to prevent any bleeding once you leave the hospital. After the test, you will be able to eat normally and resume your activities, including driving and working. The injected substance does not cause drowsiness. For a 12-hour period following the test, it is best to keep a distance of at least 1 meter, 3 feet away from young children and pregnant women. It is recommended that you drink lots of liquid during this time to eliminate the radioactive substance quickly and easily. Are you planning to go through customs in the days or weeks following your test? Make sure you have the completed and signed form from the technologist in your possession. This form certifies the date of the test and the type of product used during your nuclear medicine test. This will help you avoid having to wait several hours at customs. Do I have to do anything to prepare for the test? You must have an empty stomach for this type of examination. When you make your appointment, you will be given a series of instructions. Please take note of them and follow them carefully. How long will I be in hospital? You must plan to spend between 2 and 4 hours. Imaging inside the machine will only last about 20 minutes. Are nuclear medicine tests dangerous? No, nuclear medicine tests are not dangerous. Will I be radioactive after the test? You will be radioactive for 12 hours after the radioactive tracer is injected. The amount of radiation is no more than what you would receive during routine x-rays. However, contrary to x-rays, with a PET scan, the dose of radiation does not increase with the number of images taken. The kidneys quickly eliminate the substance from the blood. There are certain myths about nuclear medicine tests. The radioactive product does not cause heart problems. The goal of the video you're about to see is to describe the procedure for conducting nuclear medicine tests using positron emission tomography commonly called PET scans. The video will show you the equipment used and provide you with information about the test procedure. In preparation for your PET scan, make sure that you carefully follow the instructions you were given when your appointment was made, especially in terms of the fasting period. On the day of your nuclear medicine test, the PET scan, you need to bring the list of medications you take and your hospital and health insurance cards with you. If your doctor gave you some documents or a CD, you must also bring it with you. You must inform PET scan reception staff or the nuclear medicine technologist as soon as possible, preferably before your appointment. If you are or think you may be pregnant, if you are breastfeeding, if you are claustrophobic, or if you think you are unable to lie perfectly still for 25 minutes, we will then assess the feasibility of proceeding with the test. If we decide to go ahead, staff will tell you what you have to do. It is important not to move during the test so the specialist can make the most accurate diagnosis. If you do move, we will have to repeat the test. The wait time for the scan, the instructions to be followed, and time required for the test may vary from one test to another. Please note that the technologists are not authorized to comment on the results of your test. Your doctor will inform you of the results. A positron emission tomography scan, a PET scan, is a medical imaging technique used to obtain images of the body by injecting a radioactive tracer into the body. A camera is then used to monitor the distribution of this substance in the body, making it possible to conduct an accurate study of organ function. The PET scan is primarily used to detect cancerous tumors and metastasis. It can also be used to monitor treatment effectiveness and developments. In addition to cancerology, it can be used in cardiology and neurology and for infectious diseases. Preparation for these tests may vary. A nuclear medicine specialist will read the images obtained from the test. The results will then be sent to the doctor requesting the test.