The goal of the video you're about to see is to describe the procedure for conducting nuclear medicine tests using positron emission tomography commonly called PET scans. The video will show you the equipment used and provide you with information about the test procedure. In preparation for your PET scan, make sure that you carefully follow the instructions you were given when your appointment was made, especially in terms of the fasting period. On the day of your nuclear medicine test, the PET scan, you need to bring the list of medications you take and your hospital and health insurance cards with you. If your doctor gave you some documents or a CD, you must also bring it with you. You must inform PET scan reception staff or the nuclear medicine technologist as soon as possible, preferably before your appointment. If you are or think you may be pregnant, if you are breastfeeding, if you are claustrophobic, or if you think you are unable to lie perfectly still for 25 minutes, we will then assess the feasibility of proceeding with the test. If we decide to go ahead, staff will tell you what you have to do. It is important not to move during the test so the specialist can make the most accurate diagnosis. If you do move, we will have to repeat the test. The wait time for the scan, the instructions to be followed, and time required for the test may vary from one test to another. Please note that the technologists are not authorized to comment on the results of your test. Your doctor will inform you of the results. A positron emission tomography scan, a PET scan, is a medical imaging technique used to obtain images of the body by injecting a radioactive tracer into the body. A camera is then used to monitor the distribution of this substance in the body, making it possible to conduct an accurate study of organ function. The PET scan is primarily used to detect cancerous tumors and metastasis. It can also be used to monitor treatment effectiveness and developments. In addition to cancerology, it can be used in cardiology and neurology and for infectious diseases. Preparation for these tests may vary. A nuclear medicine specialist will read the images obtained from the test. The results will then be sent to the doctor requesting the test.